---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Official Tokens

## Introduction

Treasurenet is a blockchain network built on the Cosmos platform and is fully compatible with the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). With this unique architecture, the network can accommodate tokens and assets from a wide variety of distinct projects, blockchains, or platforms, making it easy for users to manage and interact with diverse digital assets within the Treasurenet ecosystem.

## Native tokens for Treasurenet- UNIT

UNIT is the native token of Treasurenet, issued at the base layer of the Treasurenet network to facilitate the fundamental operations.  
When performing Transaction, Governance, or other activities in the Treasurenet blockchain network, we need to pay the Gas Fee in the form of a UNIT Token. Additionally, UNIT tokens reward miners who maintain and support the proper functioning of the blockchain.

UNIT token functions include staking, governance (DAO), block rewards, and gas fees on Treasurenet. As a basic settlement layer and store of value, UNIT tokens are minted by validator nodes through the PoS (Proof of Stake) consensus process, as a reward for verifying new blocks in the Treasurenet protocol.

The total supply of UNIT is limited and the supply rate is disinflationary, i.e., the growth rate of UNIT supply decreases over time. The decrease in the UNIT supply growth rate is determined by regular TAT production.Treasurenet uses atto unit (aUnit) as the minimum denomination:
1Unit = 10\*\*18 aUnit

## Digital tokens linked to the real economy- TAT

TAT is a native token on the Treasurenet blockchain network, which is generated by real world entities, digital assets or other workflows, as voted on through the DAO, on Treasurenet. TAT functions as a proof of production of connected real world assets.

TAT serves as a tangible proof of production for assets connected to the Treasurenet ecosystem, functioning similarly to the "Proof of Work" (PoW) concept, but instead, it represents the creation of real-world economic value.

The purpose of the TAT is to document and verify the legitimacy of the Treasurenet economy.

For every dollar of market value produced, one TAT is minted.

Producers connected to TN Gateway can mint TAT regularly, and different assets mint TAT at different rates. For the pilot oil and gas assets, TAT is minted once a month after a monthly audit of production.

TAT is a standard ERC20 token on the Ethereum network, featuring standard ERC20 functions such as transfer, inquiry, and approvals.

Additionally, TAT tokens offer a bonus staking feature, where users can burn TAT tokens for a chance to earn bonus block rewards.

TAT Token uses atto TAT (aTAT) as the minimum denomination:
1TAT = 10\*\*18 aTAT

## Stablecoin in the Treasurenet Network - USTN

USTN Token is the native stablecoin, currently under development, on Treasurenet blockchain.

USTN Token is an ERC20 token on the Ethereum blockchain, providing standard functions such as transfers, balance inquiries, and approvals.

In addition, USTN Token have deposit and loan functionality.

USTN Token uses atto USTN (aUSTN) as the minimum denomination.
1USTN = 10\*\*18 aUST
